
Welcome to MLED 14.1! 

MLED 14.1 is a full-blown production desktop based on Slackware Linux and the
Xfce desktop environment, with many enhancements. It is currently used by
various small town halls, public libraries, schools and local radio stations
in South France. 

MLED is not some derivative Linux distribution. It aims to provide all the
stuff that's commonly missing in Slackware - popular applications, multimedia
codecs, plugins, fonts, translations - through a series of package
repositories that can be easily managed through Slackware's package manager.
These package sets are installed on top of a trimmed-down but otherwise mostly
unaltered Slackware base system. A handful of stock Slackware packages have
been rebuilt for enhanced functionality or visual consistency. Elegant and
sober artwork fit for use in a corporate environment is included.


Target audience
---------------

As far as the installation itself is concerned, MLED's main audience are users
with a bit of Linux and Slackware experience who want a rock-solid desktop
with a full set of applications where everything works out of the box, so they
can be immediately productive. Once MLED is installed, even Joe Sixpack or his
french counterpart Madame Michu can use it without even giving it a second
thought.


Hardware requirements
---------------------

The Microlinux Enterprise Desktop runs reasonably fast even on relatively
modest hardware. A battered first-generation Pentium-IV with 512 MB RAM 
and a 20 GB hard disk will be sufficient for the job. MLED runs very fast on
more recent hardware.


Processor architectures and support cycles
------------------------------------------

MLED packages are available in binary form for both 32-bit and 64-bit
architectures. The package repositories also include a full set of sources and
build scripts. Starting with Slackware 14.1, MLED strives to follow the
Slackware support cycle of roughly five years per release. Hence the "E" in
"MLED" :o)


Support
-------

MLED is basically Slackware, with a bunch of extra packages and a few minor
configuration tweaks. The Slackware forum on LinuxQuestions.org is by far the
best place to get help on Slackware. Folks on LQ are a nice and competent
crowd. Just describe your ignorance, and there's a good chance your questions
will be answered. By the way, I'm user kikinovak on LQ.

Note: there's a sticky thread on LinuxQuestions.org for all MLED-related
questions.


Credits
-------

Much of this work is based on great work that's been done before by some
excellent folks, and here's the place to give them credit :

  * Eric Hameleers for kindly mirroring the MLED project;

  * All the crew from SlackBuilds.org for their really precious work;

  * Daniel de Kok, who worked on what we called "Slick Linux" back in 2006;

  * Matteo Rossini and SÃ©bastien Ballet for the great slackpkg+ tool;

  * Chess Griffin for the great sbopkg tool;

  * And of course, Patrick Volkerding for creating the "Finest Linux
    Anywhere".


Documentation
-------------

For installation instructions, see the file 'MLED-HOWTO.txt'.

For migrating an existing installation, see the file 'MIGRATION-HOWTO.txt'.


Support MLED development

MLED is basically a one-man-project. If you want to support it, read more
about it here:

  * http://www.microlinux.fr/mled_donate.php


Work in progress
----------------

Check out the 'ChangeLog.txt' files at the root of each package repository for
the latest developments.


Enjoy!

Niki Kovacs <info@microlinux.fr>


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# vim: syntax=txt
