==========================
Frequently Asked Questions
==========================


  1. What's the MLED project about?

  2. Why is MLED based on Slackware?

  3. How intrusive is MLED?

  4. Where can I download the MLED installation ISO?

  5. Why don't you provide a separate ISO?

  6. Why is MLED based on Xfce and not on $DESKTOP?

  7. I like your project. How can I support it?


===========================================================================


1. What's the MLED project about?

MLED stands for "Microlinux Enterprise Desktop". Its ambition is to provide a
full-blown, lightweight, rock-solid and mature Linux desktop for professional
users, or more generally folks who use their computer as an efficient tool to
get their work done.

2. Why is MLED based on Slackware?

Over the years, there have been various attempts to base MLED on other Linux
distributions like CentOS, Debian or Ubuntu LTS. The choice of Slackware is
explained in detail here:

  * http://www.microlinux.fr/why_slackware.php

3. How intrusive is MLED?

Unlike projects like Dropline GNOME, MLED doesn't replace core components of
your base Slackware installation. A handful of applications like Audacious or
MPlayer are rebuilt either for enhanced multimedia capabilities, and MLED's
[extras] repository sports a more recent HPLIP package to support
last-generation HP printers.

4. Where can I download the MLED installation ISO?

MLED doesn't ship on its own installation ISO. All you need is a vanilla
Slackware installation disc and a working internet connection. Once the base
Slackware system is installed, all you have to do is fetching the packages
using 'slackpkg'.

5. Why don't you provide a separate ISO?

MLED doesn't aim to be yet another Linux distribution. Its ambition is to be
an add-on to Slackware Linux and to provide those packages that are missing
for a complete out-of-the-box desktop experience.

6. Why is MLED based on Xfce and not on $DESKTOP?

Over the last two years, there have been quite some attempts and iterations to
support multiple desktop environments like KDE or MATE,but unfortunately this
is not viable in the long run. So I decided to focus on one single desktop
environment and concentrate on quality rather than quantity. 

7. I like your project. How can I support it?

MLED development is happening in my spare time and is currently only funded by
my own company Microlinux. If you want to support the project, read more on
this page:

  * http://www.microlinux.fr/mled_donate.php


-- Niki Kovacs, Wed Jan  7 09:12:25 CET 2015


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# vim: syntax=txt
