===============
MIGRATION HOWTO (c) Niki Kovacs <info@microlinux.fr>
===============

Last revision: January 7th 2015

The following HOWTO describes how to turn an existing Slackware configuration
(or a first-generation MLED) into a second-generation Xfce-based MLED system
without reinstalling everything from scratch. 


Switch to init 3:

  # init 3 

Login as root.

Edit '/etc/slackpkg/mirrors' and choose a Slackware mirror according to your
geographical location, for example:

--8<---------- /etc/slackpkg/mirrors -----------------------------------------
...
# GERMANY (DE)
ftp://ftp.fu-berlin.de/unix/linux/slackware/slackware-14.1/
...
--8<--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure you choose only one single mirror for Slackware stable. If you're
using MLED in France, configure the ftp.fu-berlin.de or the mirror.switch.ch
mirror. The admins at OVH can't seem to get their act together.

If you're already using 'slackpkg+', edit '/etc/slackpkg/slackpkgplus.conf'
and comment out all third-party repositories EXCEPT the multilib repository on
a 64-bit system.

Update GPG keys:

  # slackpkg update gpg 

Update information about available packages:

  # slackpkg update 

List all third-party packages that are going to be removed, but don't confirm
their removal yet:

  # slackpkg clean-system

You may want to keep the following packages if you're using them. They will be
replaced by more recent versions later on, but removing them would cause some
minor trouble :

  1. user-settings-console (if you're running an old MLED system)
  2. slackpkg+ 

Import the Microlinux helper scripts:

  # cd
  # git clone https://github.com/kikinovak/slackware

If you already have these scripts, make sure they're up to date:

  # cd ~/slackware
  # git pull

Now's the time to install and/or configure 'slackpkg+' to point to the new
MLED repositories. To avoid the hassle, Microlinux provides a custom
'slackpkg+' package that comes preconfigured for the Microlinux repositories.

On the command line, use the 'links' browser to navigate through the
repositories:

  # cd
  # links http://www.microlinux.fr/slackware/ 

Navigate to the 'desktop-14.1-$ARCH/slackware/ap/' subdirectory. Grab the
'slackpkg+' package from the repository (use the [D] key in the Links browser
to download it) and install it:

  # upgradepkg --reinstall --install-new slackpkg+-1.3.2-noarch-2_microlinux.txz  

  /!\ $ARCH is the architecture of your CPU (either 32-bit or 64-bit).

Make sure you don't keep the existing configuration file. If you were already
using 'slackpkg+', you might need to update your configuration manually:

  # cd /etc/slackpkg
  # mv slackpkgplus.conf.new slackpkgplus.conf

Update information about available packages again:

  # slackpkg update 

Trim the base Slackware installation by running the 'trim_desktop.sh' script.
This will remove all unneeded packages and install everything that's needed
for a functional Xfce desktop:

  # cd desktop-14.1-$ARCH/tools 
  # ./trim_desktop.sh 

Upgrade the base packages:

  # slackpkg upgrade-all

If you're upgrading an existing MLED installation, reinstall Audacious and
MPlayer (three packages):

  # slackpkg reinstall audacious MPlayer

Install the full collection of MLED packages:

  # slackpkg install microlinux-desktop

Install the custom menu entries by running the 'cleanmenu.sh' script in the
same directory:

  # ./cleanmenu.sh 

Since your user is already created, his default profile will have to be copied
over manually from '/etc/skel'. 

First, delete your existing '~/.config' directory:

  $ rm -rf ~/.config

Switch to root and copy '/etc/skel/.config' to your user's home directory:

  # cp -Rv /etc/skel/.config /home/your_user/

Now set permissions on your user's '.config' directory:

  # chown -R your_user:users /home/your_user/.config
  # find /home/your_user/.config -type d | xargs chmod 0755
  # find /home/your_user/.config -type f | xargs chmod 0644

Define Xfce as your default desktop environment, switch back to init 4 and
login to Xfce:

  # xwmconfig --> choose Xfce
  # init 4 

  /!\ The above command deserves a little explanation. It uses a quirk in
  'xwmconfig'. Defining Xfce as default environment for root does not mean
  that you're supposed to login as root. It just has the secondary effect of
  setting it as default desktop for all your users. This measure is redundant,
  since the files in '/etc/skel' already contain an '.xinitrc' file that's
  predefined for Xfce. 


Enjoy your shiny new Microlinux Enterprise Desktop!

-- Niki Kovacs, Wed Jan  7 08:05:09 CET 2015


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# vim: syntax=txt
